---
layour: post
title: Headachy
---
The title of this post was chosen without any thinking whatsoever. But the title isn't the point. The point is to write. I do have a headache, which is why I'm not at karate this evening. So I'm at home, enjoying an hour or so of time on my own while M is putting to bed out little one.

I wanted to spend that time reading and writing. I'm writing now. But just before I started, I again checked LinkedIn for what must have been the third time of the day. It's been so interesting to notice over the past few weeks that I perceive the platform simultaneously more annoying and more of a distraction, while – at the same time – finding it more addictive. Maybe it's because it's the one website I use where I get to scroll through a feed. In any case, I'm often using it as distraction.

My aspiration is to live a life filled with what really matters. No more email than necessary, no more WhatsApp, no more LinkedIn or even online newspapers. And yet, I find that it's so hard to do. Part of me whether trying so hard to live without these things is what makes them so alluring. But part of me also thinks that there must be a way to get away from that stuff. To spend my time doing real things. Reading. Looking out the window. Going for a walk. Learning how to paint. Listening to a song. Talking to a friend. (I'm not mentioning spending time with my family here because that's an area of live that doesn't suffer much from my tech-use.)

I must be in the 10th percentile of social media/phone/internet/tv users of my generation, so it's not like I feel like I'm waisting massive amounts of time. But I do waste a fair bit. I'd estimate 5+ hours per week. And it's the kind of mental state the stuff puts me in what is the most distructive. The kind of hyper-reactive, dopamine-hit-seeking, passiv mindset. That's the main cost. Such a far cry from being energetic, altert, equanimous, balanced, present.