---
layour: post
title: Self-medicating myself
---
Cashews and goji berries have been my medicine for weeks now. I eat them by the handfuls. Sometimes multiple times per day. As far as unhealthy habits go, this is not a bad one, I supposed. At least the excess calories are from healthy sources. That's what I've been telling myself. But a form of self-medication it still is. Or, in the language of Internal Family Systems, a language I'm slowly familiarising myself with, the overeating is a protector. What is it protecting me from, I wonder? In that moment, what is it afraid I'll feel if I don't eat? I can't tell. Because so far I've always eaten. Or just about always.

Part of becoming a person, in the sense that Carl Rogers describes in his book on the subject, will be to let myself experience whatever my protector is afraid of. I think I've got quite the journey ahead of me. It feels like I'm at the very beginning. And at the beginning things are exciting. One's full of energy to meet them. Initial progress is motivating and a little intoxicating. And then the party stops and things get hard. Become a grind. Boring. Painful. Scary. Unsettling. Disorienting. This is what I know I have ahead of me. I have no idea what kind of person I'll gradually come to know along that journey. But I am, right now, very eager to get to meet them. I might want to turn back along the way. But I'm sure I won't. For myself. For my family. 

According to Rogers, part of becoming a person is to be more aware of one's experience. The full experience. To be able to receive all sensory inputs unfiltered, and just see them as parts of myself, instead of imposing a self onto that experience and filtering it to fit that pre-conceived notion of self. What will this be like? As I do this, I should increasingly start to trust my organism to make wise choices because it now has unfiltered access to all relevant data: memories from past experiences, my sensations and feelings, thoughts and desires, and social demands. The promise seems to be that a "gut" decision based on all of this will help me make good decisions. Not infallible. But good ones, and with the ability to course-correct quickly because I'll be aware early if something doesn't feel right. There will also be a shift in locus of control from outside to inside, as the only relevant question becomes "what does feel right to me"? That's obviously not about egoism, as my desire to do well to others, my love for them, and my willingness to make sacrifices all factor into the decision. But it is, ultimately, what I think is right based on my own experience and values. That's something I've been working on for a long time and haven't managed. Perhaps precisely because I didn't address the problem at a deep-enough level. Common characteristics of someone who has become a real person: a love for self, an ability to accept that the self is a process, the ability to see the self as emerging from ones experience instead of that experience being moulded by a conception of the self. There is more I can't remember.

It feels like I'm at a gateway into a different way of being. A new way of self. I don't know what stepping through it is gonna do to me. But I can sense that it will be good. Healthy. That I will come out the way I always wanted to be – fully alive. True to myself. Guided by my own values. Kind. Focused on the things that matter instead of transient things that don't. A true understanding of who I am and what I need, and an appreciation and love for that person. All sounds rather wowo. But here we go. A little wowo will surely do me good.

Also, one insight I had while reading on the couch around noon today: under normal circumstances I'd have been working all this time the morning. And all day yesterday. And the day before that. That was an awful lot of time. An awful lot of time I'd have dedicated to an employer I don't care that deeply about and to work I don't fully believe in. That's what life is most of the time. A lot of time, spend being busy on this and that thing. And none of them really matter all that much. When at the office, the time passes quickly precisely because of that business. So quickly, one doesn't quite realised how much time one has spent on unimportant things. It was only once I let myself slow down, notice, and be present – at least a little – that it was evident just how much time there was. I want to remember that. This is the time of my life. Literally. Do I want to spend it being busy with things I don't care about? The challenge, of course, is that I now have a family to feed. And I rather like making good money so I can buy stuff I like (a couple trousers for a total of 250 Euros, say, without blinking), and we can have a beautiful home and holiday in beautiful places. How to square that circle is not obvious. Though one way of doing it would, I suppose, be to just need less. Need less. I don't need much. It's just having enough money to buy things I appreciate is really nice.