---
layour: post
title: Shame
---
Yesterday afternoon, the saga continued. We were again talking about progress on the evaluation. It turned out that what C produced was not quite what we needed, that what we needed would take more work, and, also, that what he did produce would take some additional deep-dive because it differed from earlier results. All this would be fine, in principle. What makes me feel guilty and ashamed is the feeling that I should be doing the work C is doing, because this is my project. The only reason I'm not doing it is that my daughter's daycare was closed on Monday morning, so that C started with the work. 

I should be doing the work. However, I feel like I really don't want to because I haven't done that kind of work in years, have realised over the past year that I gravitate to more high-level work, and worry that it would take me a very long time to complete, because I don't have the computational environment set up. So, what to do? I'm ashamed to give any inputs or ask for anything more because there is constant shame, think that C is absolutely furious at me and thinks the worst of me, and think that L probably thinks about the same. Both of them are, at this point, doing just about all the work on the deep-dive of my project. Basically because I can't do any of it myself. That's the bit that makes me ashamed, I think. It's that, effectively, I couldn't really do it. I mean, I think I could, but it would take me a long time and it might still not be as good.

That's my worst nightmare come true: being exposed as someone who can't do the work. Being exposed as, after all, not part of a group of people I aspired to be part of. Loosing the respect of people I was very concerned about winning. Exposing myself as less competent than I portray myself to be. The parallel to my former boss is uncanny. That's exactly what happened with her. And what I'm feeling right now might well be a version of what she did. I'm a little nauseous right now. My neck is tight. The area behind my left ear is tight, too. There is tingling in my head. My entire body is in a state of tension. I can feel my brain struggling to find solutions, with its back against a wall. Panicking. Seeking a way out: "Could I do the analysis myself after all if I had to?", "Should I just take over from C so I no longer have to feel guilty?", "Perhaps I should just focus on another aspect of the work so I contribute something?", "Should I call in sick?". It's hard to think clearly in that state of mind. My chest is tight, too. My hands are almost shaking. Not quite, but almost. They are also a little sweaty.

I'm being exposed as not being good at my job. People I work with are better at it than I am. The worry that I couldn't quite level up to the technical skills of most of my colleagues is being born out. And it has consequences in that I can't do work I should be doing. Do I think I should be able to do the work? Well, I think that people think that someone in my position should be able to do it, even if it's not their strength. And I think that is not an unreasonable point of view.

I'm falling short not just by other people's standards but also by my own. That's what makes this really hard. I find it hard to live with others thinking poorly of me. Even if I don't care much about them, certainly when I do care about them. But in this case, this is harder because I can't be easy by my own standards. It's not a situation where I can just think "Oh well, they expect this of me but I'm fine with not meeting that expectation". My jaw is tight, too. My entire face is. Because I am ashamed that I can't do this, either. I feel like I should have spent time setting up the computational environment and done work like this before. I just haven't.

Why haven't I? Because I was very bush with other – more high-level – work. But also because I just don't want to do that work. I've got myself into a job where at least part of the requirement I don't wanna do. Even though, this was never a formal requirement. But it's something that, given the shape of our work, everyone expects everyone to be able to do. But the point is: there is a reason I haven't done this before. The reason being: I didn't want to and didn't have to so far.

And now, when I have to, I can't. And I'm ashamed of that. Why? Did I ever pretend that I could? No. But, again, everyone else can and does do these things. So, it's kind of expected. My hands are sweaty and cold.  A good IC can do the work he doesn't usually do well. This is one of those instances, and I'm falling short. Because I never had to do that particular kind of work. My neck is tight.

Can I just tell my boss? What would I tell him? That I'd only like to do high-level work? Sure I could do that. But he doesn't really think that that kind of work is valuable. He likes hands-on people. He doesn't value as much the things I'm good at. Or at least I don't think he does.

But what to do? The worst part of this is the element of deception and pretense. The sense that I should be something I'm not. If it was clear that I just focused on high-level work and everyone knew it, then a situation like this wouldn't happen because it would be clear that I wasn't the person for the job. But that would also mean that I can't fully do my job. Would I feel like a second-class citizen among my peers? Perhaps. But only if there is nothing I can do to create value. And I think there would be.

So, I need a solution for today. One for the next few weeks, and one for the next few months. The last one is the easiest, in that the solution would be to move into a less technical role. But what to do today? And for the next few weeks? If I had a boss I trusted this would be one thing. But after my conversation with him last week I am no longer sure he's got my back. He seemed annoyed. Blaming me for things I felt were largely unjustified, which he'd never told me before even though they happened months or weeks ago. So, talking to him is not something I wanna do. But I might have no choice. I really don't know what to do right now.




