---
layour: post
title: I never thought
---
... that I might be one of these guys. The kind of guy who's working a job because it makes sense – because it's interesting enough, because the colleagues are nice, and because it pays well enough. But for whom work is not a main source of identity or fulfillment or meaning. I thought I'd be a mover and shaper. The main reasons I never considered becoming a journalist was that it was always clear to me that one day, I'd be the person being interviewed or written about by journalists.

Now I'm not so sure. Talking to M about our potential move to Switzerland and thinking about all the trade-offs involved there, I heard myself saying for the first time in my life that, perhaps, it would be fine for me to just be happy enough in my job and derive my main source of meaning and enjoyment from outside my work – from being a dad, karate, mindfulness, some other hobbies, perhaps a side-project. Basically, just a guy who's got a good job, a family, and some hobbies. Like a normal guy.

For almost as long as I can remember I wanted to be the guy who stood out. Normal was for others. I was special. And I worked hard for it. In some ways, making peace with being normal feels like giving up. In another way, even thinking of myself as above-normal seems to reveal a blatant lack of perspective – what even is above-normal? Worth more? Earning more? Working harder? Being more human? Being stronger? It's obviously not that clear. In the only sense that truly matters we're all normal. But then, we all know people who in some sense we all recognise clearly aren't. The four-star general who purportedly sleeps four hours a night, eats one meal a day, gets up at four, and is considered bad-ass among the elite soldiers he leads (I'm looking at you, Stanley McChrystal), or the CEO or entrepreneur who leads a business, does Ironman races, and is also a decent dad.

It's been the last one I always aspired to. Do something I can truly be proud of professionally, excel physically, and be a great dad. What has been added recently is the idea to also wanting to stand out in terms of presence, emotional intelligence, and wisdom. Together, this is the kind of person I want to be and that would make me feel special.

Why I feel like maybe being just regular would be just fine for now is that I have no idea what business I'd lead or found, and I haven't found a discipline to compete in (Karate might become it, or Hyrox). My spiritual practice is kind of bumbling along. The one thing I feel like I'm doing well is in terms of being a good dad. It might just take time. Stay in my job, read and observe, until either doors open up or I see an opening I can create myself. Keep training as I do – working with a PT to become stronger, do karate, run. Start attending local meditation talks, retreats and see whether it helps me build a regular meditation practice. And just be a good dad. Over time, this might help me become exactly what I want to be – an exceptionally regular guy. Though the last sentence here contains some of the seed of trouble – the goal is to be happy with what I am right now, not planning to be happy with some future self. But for today, that's enough writing.