---
layour: post
title: Another day
---
What a view from my office. It's dusk. The full moon right above the bay. Buildings on the other side of the bay full of light. Another day. Another day to be true to myself. To be who I want to be. To be a loving and caring husband and dad. My body feels exhausted. It's as if a big weight has been lifted from my shoulders. Or, more apt, is slowly being lifted.

I left work yesterday at lunchtime. My brain at some point ceased to work properly, as the thoughts raced through it. It did not feel like much of a choice. The whole point of going in on Monday and Tuesday and yesterday was that I'd try to carry on calmly, just do my best. Yet it became clear that things didn't get better but worse. And so waiting this one out, ignoring it, just pushing through didn't seem like a realistic option.

It felt strange. Unknown. Shameful. Embarrassing. Very much at odds with my self-image. Disorienting, perhaps? I never thought I'd be that guy. How did this happen? How did I end up here?

My best hypothesis? For decades, I've strived to be as fit as an athlete, as successful at work as a workaholic, as good a dad and husband as a family man, and as wise and equanimous as a mindfulness teacher. I did this, I've just recently realised, because the little boy in me was still desperate for the attention that his dad, who had to work a lot, and his mom, who had to take care of his disabled sister, couldn't fully give him. Needless to say, it all proved a little much. At work, in particular, the seeking for status and achievement led me to commit to becoming excellent in a field in which I have some genuine interest and to which I bring some aptitude, but which never truly felt like what I should be doing and in which I always felt like an imposter. Not, I think, because I thought everyone else is better, but because I sensed, deep down, that I was forcing myself to do something I didn't really want to do and be someone I wasn't. But striving I did, and because I'm good at striving I did decently well. And now, that I've finally landed a position of responsibility, that comes with expectations that I am able to do certain things. I can do these things. But it's become clear to me over the past year that I don't really want to. The hands-on work of programming, thinking deeply about advanced statistical methods, getting deep into the data, all of this I used to thoroughly enjoy. But i have realised over the past year that it is really the people management, organisational, leadership part of the role I gravitate to. That feels effortless in some way. Or, perhaps more accurately, like effort I truly enjoy. As a result, I've avoided the technical aspects of the work for a year because I could, while desperately seeking the respect of my more technically minded colleagues. It seemed like it worked. I felt respected for what I did. But now, in this latest ad-hoc assignment, the technical skills were needed. And not only did I have to do it because it was about my project, but I had to do it with two of my strongest technical colleagues. I felt watched. Ashamed that I wasn't ready, worried that I'd take too long and show that I couldn't really do the work as well as they could. And instead of just being above board and saying that I hadn't done this before and that this wasn't my strength, I felt obliged to just do it, and so I did, or tried. Once I started feeling that I lost their respect, things started to go downhill. Spiralling down to the point where I couldn't continue any longer.